Hi, everyone.
In this letter, we will be creating the bricks.
All right, so we are done with the paddles movement, the ball's movement, the next logical thing
for us would be to create our Brooks.
So first off, I'm going to head down to our or head up.
Where is our new game function?
There we go.
And in here, what I would like to do is I would like to create I would like to call a variable and
set it to zero, initialize the note.
We have not done that yet.
So.
OK.
And for the break, we are going to need some game parameters, so I'm going to go to top and hear what
I'm going to do as OK, so the first one that we need is going to be our brick rose, because actually
this this the brick itself is going to be an array that is going to contain rows and columns.
So we're going to have eight rows and this is going to be the starting number of brick rows, brick
rows.
Then we are going to have our.
You know what?
I'm just going to copy that below.
Then we are going to have our brick columns.
So this is going to be original.
I'm just going to call it original.
Original number of Brek columns.
Perfect, then we will need a break gap, so let me just this is going to be the gap between the bricks
as and this is going to be a fraction of the wall with.
Right.
So I'm just going to set it to zero point three and I'm not going to be writing the comment.
It takes a lot of time and I'm just going to paste there.
The next one is going to be the margin, right.
So consed margin.
And let's set it to for now.
The margin is going to be the number of M2 rose above the bricks.
Right.
So I'm just going to copy that and I'm going to paste it right here right now.
Empty space between the top of the bricks and the score.
Sorry.
What is this.
This should be scoreboard.
Right?
So if we come here, this empty space that you can see.
So this is our scoreboard, that empty space that you can see, that is going to be the margin that
we just created.
Right.
And we are also going to need a max level.
So what is going to be our maximum level?
We are going to set it to two.
Now, the thing about the maximum level is that whenever the level increases, we will create two Rosseau
plus two rows of bricks per level.
All right.
So we are done with this one as well and.
Right after that, what I'm going to do as another dimension, so let's save that, we're aware this
is the directions, this is the dimensions beneath our dimensions.
What I'm going to do is.
Actually, I'm going to come here initializing the paddle and the ball and I'm going to come in this
one out, you know what?
I'm just going to change this one.
So we have our paddle, we have our ball, we have the touch X now we need to initialize the bricks.
We need to declare Breck's, which is going to be equal to an empty array.
And then also the level.
The level.
Not the level.
All right.
So perfect so far.
So we have created we have called the initial level is going to be zero, so we have done that as well.
Next thing the next thing that I would like to do is I would like to create the BRICS function.
All right.
So let's see, where should we put it?
OK, so what I'm going to do as where is our upload speed, so the applicable speed is right here and
I'm just going to copy this comment and I'm going to put it here and I'm going to call it create bricks,
create bricks, function.
All right.
So first off, what we need is going to be we are going to need some dimensions.
So first off, let's create the function, create bricks.
Perfect.
And the first, we are going to need some road dimensions, dimensions perfect, so we are going to
say that the minimum Y position is going to be the wall.
All right.
And this is going to be the minimum vertical distance the bricks can have.
And then we will have a minimum X distance as well, which is going to be both the Y position of the
ball, minus the balls height times three point five.
This is just some distance that I came up with and this is going to be the maximum horizontal distance
that the bricks can have.
Right.
And we will have a total of space in the Y direction.
So total space in the Y direction.
And that is going to be the maximum.
OK, so this is going to be the this is going to be the minimum wage and this is going to be the maximum,
why sorry for that.
So this is why we won't get to because these are rows.
Whenever we talk about rows, we are working in the Y direction.
So minimum Y and this is going to be maximum Y.
So maximum Y.
Perfect, minus the minimum.
Why is going to give us the total, why the total space in the Y direction?
So how many rows we are going to have?
So we are going to say total rose, we are going to store there and we are going to grab the margin.
Right.
And the margin is going to be plus the bricks rose plus the maximum level that we have.
And for each level we are going to have to row.
So I'm just going to multiply it by two.
Then let's create the row height, which is going to be the total space in the Y direction divided by
the total rows that we have.
So total rows and just two, for example, whenever we get to level ten.
So this is level one.
When we get to level ten in each level, plus two rows are going to be created and the rows are going
to come right here.
So all the way here.
That's why just to provide some space between the rows on the top of the ball in the starting position,
I just multiply by zero point, not just to reduce that, just to increase that distance.
Right.
And increase that gap.
So we will have a gap as well, which is going to be the wall times, the brick gap that we have created
and times zero point nine, which I did exactly the same thing.
And now let the height of any row is going to be the row height minus the gap.
Perfect.
So we have we are done with the road dimensions, let's dive into the column Dimensions column.
Dimensions perfect, so let's change this to call them so in the column dimensions, first off, we
will have our total total.
Space in the extraction, and that is going to be the width of the canvas minus the walls on both sides,
so I'm going to multiply it by two.
We are going to have the column with columns have width, and we are going to grab our total space X.
And from that, we are going to subtract the gap and we are going to divide it by the break columns.
Perfect.
And OK, and let's grab let's try the width of the column, the width of the column we had the height
for the row and we have with four the column, the width for the column is going to be the column width
minus the gap.
Perfect, so the next thing that we would like to do is create the brick class, so I'm going to come
down here right and in the class where we have our classes.
So we have already class for the ball and we we have a class for the panel.
So it's in between them.
I'm going to create the brick class and we're going to say class capital B Rec and we are going to provide
a constructor here.
So what what do we have inside the constructor, so we are going to have a left position, a top position,
a with for the bricks, a height for the bricks, color for the bricks, score for the bricks.
And we are going to have a speed multiplier because as we move up the rank, we are going to multiply.
We are going to multiply the existing speed with some a multiplier and that is going to take care of
that increment of the speed.
So we are going to say this start with is going to be equal to with.
We are going to say this stud height is going to be equal to height.
This dot left.
Is going to be left, this dot top is going to be top, and what else do we have?
We have this dot bottom, which is going to be top plus the height.
We are going to have this start, right, which is going to be left plus with we are going to have this
color is going to be able to color and you're going to have this score we call to score.
And finally, the start speed must be equal to speed.
Perfect.
So we have created that as well.
So what I'm going to do as we are going to go back to our function, so we have all of these here.
We have the constructor, we have the brick class.
So in here, what I would like to do is I would like to, first off, reset the bricks in case there
are any bricks.
So resetting the bricks, right?
Perfect.
So we are going to grab our bricks and I'm going to set it to an empty array.
And then we are going to grab the number of columns, the columns that we have.
And we are going to say they should be the brick columns.
The rows are going to be different.
So we are going to say rows are going to be our brick rows.
Brick, rose, plus the level, and in each level, we are going to have to rose.
Now I'm going to declare I'm going to declare some variables and I'm going to say, let's color.
And then left.
Then the rank that they are going to have, then the rank, the highest rank that they are going to
have, which is that red, then the score and then the speed multiplier.
And finally, we are going to provide the top position.
Perfect.
All right, so what are we going to do here is we are going to loop over our we are going to loop over
the roads and also we are going to loop over our columns and we are going to populate this BRICS.
The BRICS are right.
So first off, what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab our rank high and I'm going to set it to the
number of rows that we have divided by two minus one.
Because the reason that we do minus one is because we want to start from the bottom and then go to top.
We are actually moving in a reverse direction.
So now we are going to set for a little I is equal to zero and I is going to be less than the number
of Froese.
So each time the iterates, it is going to create one row for us and we are going to have a plus plus
in here.
So the I we are going to grab our Brooks array and we are going to pass and I and we are going to initialize,
initialize it as a meteorite.
So all of our rows are inside an empty array and then the rank.
So the rank is going to be math that floor.
I divided by two because because two rows are going to have the same blank.
Perfect.
The next thing that I would like to do as I would like to grab the color as well.
So I'm going to we are going to call a method called get a Color, which we will create in just a moment.
And I'm going to pass in the rank and the rank high.
Get recolour right after that, what I would like to do, as I would like to grab the top position as
well, so the top position is going to be the wall that we have plus the margin.
We should come down right margin, which is going to be and we are going to have one row whenever we
come down, right.
And I'm going to multiply that by the arow height that we have found out and we are going to say another
for a loop inside here and we're going to have four.
Let J is equal to zero and J goes all the way to less than the number of columns that we have.
Perfect, and we are going to increment by one each time we are going to grab the left position and
we are going to say the wall plus the gap.
Plus G times the column with so we are going to have more than one column, of course, and now let's
go ahead on this grab Brooks are right and we are going to pass and I for the Rose and Jay for the columns.
And in here we are going to call in our brick class.
We are going to say new brick.
And in the brick class, we are going to have left.
So left is going to be equal to left.
The top is going to be equal to top.
We're going to have our with our height and we are going to pass on the color which for which we are
going to create the function in just a moment.
We are going to pass in the score, which we have not calculated yet, and we are going to pass on the
speed multiplier, which we are not we have not calculated yet.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to pass and all the way up to the color and I'm going to come
down here.
Let's come down and let's grab these two and I'm just going to cut them out so we don't see any issues
here and here.
All right.
So let's go up here.
So we have completed that.
The next thing for us to do is go ahead and actually draw our bricks.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to come to here.
So here we call our draw functions.
And right after the paddle, I'm going to call a draw Brooks function.
All right.
And we are going to create that.
Let's see, where should we put it?
The draw breaks.
So where is our draw ball?
So here is our draw a ball and then here we have our draw paddle.
So in here, we are going to put that drop bricks function.
So draw bricks function.
Perfect.
So it is going to be a function and and the function we are going to pass and we are going to grab the
function name.
All right, so I'm going to say draw bricks.
Perfect, there is not going to be any parameter here.
So what do we want to do?
So now we have rows of bricks.
And based on those rows, what do we want to do?
We want to we want to create a loop so that and through that loop, we will be creating rows for each
of the game levels.
Now, imagine we have, for example, like how many columns, how many rows we have eight rows, four,
eight, eight columns and it rows.
Is that correct?
Then we check it out.
Actually, the number of columns is 14.
It is not eight.
So imagine that for each row you have to implement a function again and again.
So to reduce that load, what we are going to do is we are going to loop over that first and then we
are going to whenever we loop over, each time we each time for the loop iteration happens, we are
going to create a row for the bricks.
So we are going to say for that row of bricks.
So this is going to loop over all the rows and this is going to loop over each individual, let brick
of a row, each in each individual brick.
And for that, what we would like to do is we are going to grab our canvas context and we are going
to say fill style and we are going to grab our brick dot color.
Perfect, and we're going to grab our canvas context and basically we are drawing a rectangle, so I'm
just going to say fill wrecked the position, the exposition is going to be bricked left, the Y position
is going to be bricked atop.
The width is going to be brick W.
And the height is going to be Brooke H.
Perfect.
So we have created these as well and are right, so next thing, what I would like to do as before actually
saving anything, I want to create a function for getting the colors as well.
So what I would like to do is beneath this dry drawls function we have created that we have created
the function call.
Now we need to create the function itself.
So I'm going to say get break color.
Perfect.
So it is going to be function, get break color, there is there is actually going to be two parameters
because we passed and where is our break?
So we called, whereas the get break color, we passed in the rank and the higher rank.
So I'm going to pass in here the rank and the rank high.
Or I'm just going to call it highest rank, highest rank, perfect, so what we are going to do is basically
this is going to be a Cyesis magic that we will be doing here.
Right.
And you know what?
This should not be here.
And we first off, I'm just going to put in a comment here.
So in the RGV, RGV color spectrum, what we have is the red is going to be equal to zero.
Right.
And in here, the way that we are going to build this is we are going to start from red.
And as we decrease the redness, we increase the greenness and the color is going to transition from
red to green.
Red.
That's basically what we are going to do.
So the red, because it has a rank of zero, this is going to be a red is going to be zero.
And then at the at the farthest side towards the top, we are going to have a red and at the farthest
side towards the bottom, we are going to have our green.
So.
Let's go ahead and let's say orange.
So the next color is going to be orange, which I'm going to set it to zero point three three, then
we are you can see that we are transitioning to green.
Then we have our yellow, which is going to be zero point six seven.
And then we are going to have our green, which is going to be equal to one.
So the farthest towards the top is the for the stores.
The bottom is going to be green.
And now let's go.
Let's create a fraction here.
So I'm going to save that fraction and the fraction is going to be the rank that we have divided by
the highest rank.
Perfect.
And I'm going to declare our.
Gee, and because we don't have any blue, I'm still going to declare, but I'm going to initialize
it to zero.
Perfect now.
We are going to say a red to orange to yellow.
So this is the first part.
And in order to do that, we are going to increase the green of the of the colors.
So we're going to say if fraction is less than or equal to zero point six seven.
So we know that zero point six seven is yellow.
So if it is this or less than that, we are in this range.
Then the red is going to be equal to 255 and the green is going to be equal to.
255 times the fraction that we have and what is the final color code, it is going to be zero point
six seven.
So we are done with this part in.
The next part is going to be we are going to go from yellow to green and in here we are going to reduce
the red.
All right.
And this is going to be Alice.
So, Alice, the red is going to be equal to 255 times one minus the fraction.
Perfect, and we are going to divide it by zero point three three and the G or the green is going to
be equal to 255.
And finally, we need this function to return and RGV color.
So we are going to set a return openable template strings.
All right.
And in here, I'm going to pass in RGV.
And so the first parameter in here is going to be the first argument is going to be are the second one
is going to be G and the third one.
Where is the third one is going to be blue.
So let's pass that in and.
OK, all right, so now the only thing left for us to do to be able to see our Breck's is just go ahead
and call this function that we have created here.
So this I'm going to call it inside the new game function.
So I'm going to say create bricks.
Let's save it.
Let's come here.
This is our so this is our game and this is what we have created.
So one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14.
So do you.
With the with and the number of the columns, they seem OK.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
The number of rows are OK as well, but the height of the rows is not it's not exactly what we want.
So let's move up to where we have we have created over Brooks.
So the height of the bricks, this is where we have created that.
And I thought, oh, this should be multiplied.
So let's save it.
Let's come here.
There we go.
So now if I decrease the width of the window, you can see how responsive this is or if you increase
it, they're going to get increased or decreased.
But if you serve the ball, the thing is that we have not set up any collision detection.
That's why it's just going to the ball doesn't know that they are there.
Right.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.